***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:Programming languagesare one kind of computer language and are used in computer programming to impliment
algorithms.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:JDK (Java development kit) is a software development environment used for developing
java applicationsand applets.
JRE--Java runtime environment
JVM--Java virtual machine.

What is an IDE?
Answer: An integrated development environment.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:Airlines reservation system
Data visualization software
Electricity billing system
e-Healthcare management system
Email client software
Liberary management system.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:code/text editor-java source file-java compiler-class(bytecode file)-class loader-bytecode
varifier-interpreter.

What is a class?
Answer:A class is a group of objects that share common properties and behaviours.

What is an object?
Answer:An object is a member(also called an instance)of a java class.Each object has an idetity,
a behaviour and a state.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer:public static void main(String[]args)

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:The main()method is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating
the class. This also saves the unnecessarys westage of memory which would have been
 used by the object declared only for calling themain()method by JVM.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:Path is a set for java tools in java programes like java and JAVC
Which is used to compile the code .
Whereas CLASSPATH  IS  used by System  or Application  class loader  to locate and load
 compile java by bytecodes stored  in the class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer:An abstract class allows to creat functionality that subclass
can impliment or override
An interface only allows to define functionality ,not impliment it .

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:No you cannot . To do so you needto let the interface or Abstract  method
to use an abstruct we use extends .An interface uses impliments.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:Access modifiers are keywords in object oriented languages that set the accessibitility of classes,methods,
and other members.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:OOP-Object oriented programming is a computer programming model that organizes
 software design around data or objects rather then functions and logic.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:Java pacage is the mechanism to organize the java classes by
grouping them .Java lang pacage is imported by default and we dont
needto import any class from this pacage explicitly.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:API- Aplication Programming Interface is defined as a software  code
that helps two different softwares to communicates and changing data with each others.
Different types of API they are as follows
OPEN API
PARTNER API
INTERNAL API
HIGH LEVEL API
LOW LAVEL API

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:Java does not support multiple inheritances in classes
because it can lead to diamond problem and rather then providing some complex way
to solve it ,there are better ways through which we can aciieve the same result
as a multiple inheritances.

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer:Method overloading is a form of polymorphism in OOP .Polymorphism allows object or method
 to act in different ways according to the means in which they are used .
 There are two types of Polimorphism
 1.Method Overloading
 2.Method Overriding.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:The try -catch is the simpliest method of handling exceptions .
put the code you want to run in the try block and any java exceptios
that the code throws are caught by one or more catch block.The
method will catch any type of java excepyions that get thrown .

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:The Static keywords in java is used to share the same variable or method
of a given class .The users can apply static keywords with variables methods, blocks
and nested classes.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:Final is used for classes,methods ot  attributes .It makes them non changable
In classes it prevents inheritance. In methods it prevents overriding. For  attributes,
it prevents reassignment

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:

What is a constructor?
Answer:
A constructor instantiates objects of the class it belongs to  .Whenever an object
of a class is created , the constructor  allows it to be created and asks for arguments to be passed
if the constructor requires so

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:
We can only have one  constructor with in a class.We can use constructor overloading
to allow for different parameters to be passed when instantiating an objectof a class

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:
The default constructor


What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:
This refers to the current object in a method or constructor.We use it usually
when we want to eliminate confusion between class attribute and perameter with
the same name .It typically used for assigning said argument to the class attribute.

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:
Super refer to the super class. We can use super when performing method overriding to
call the original implimentation of the methods from the super class .We can also use
it to pass any shared perameters of the constructor of the subclass to the constructor
 of the super classs.
What does JVM stand for?
Answer:JVM -Java virtual machine or JVM loads varifies
and executes java bytecodes

Is JVM platform independent?

Answer:JVM is a platform dependent.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:The Java version can be found in the java control panel.
Under the general tabin the java control panel the version is
available through the about section.

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:JAR stands for JAVA ARchive  ,its a file formate based on the popular zip file format and is used
 for aaggregating many files into one.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JDK-java development kit
JVM-java virtual machine .

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE identifies all the helpful class libraries needed
for execution.
While JVM is a subclass of JRE that decodes the bytecode
into machine language and other minor tasks.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:Compile time is the period  when the programming code(such as c#,
java,C,Python) is converted to the machine code.
Runtime is the period of time when a programme is running and generally
 occures after compile time.

What is heap?
Answer:Aheap is a specialized tree based data structere that
satisfied the heap property

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:Java does memory automatically .Java uses an automatic memory
management  system called garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:String  is a type that holds a sequence of multiple chracters.
String Buffer is like a string but can be modified.Its length and content
can be changed through certain methods call .
String Builder is a similer to string buffer but it better when being
used by a single thread .String Buffer supports being used by a multiple
threads because its synchronized.


What is Singleton class?
Answer:The Singleton pattern is a software design pattern
that restricts the instalationsof a class to one  "single"
instance.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization is the process of converting n object into a
stream of bytes to store the object or transmit it to memory,
a data base  or a file .Its main purpose is to save the state
of an object in order to be able to recreate  it when needed.
The reverse process is called Deserialization.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:A while loop checks to see if the given condition is true and then executes
 whatever is contained in its code block.It then increments once the loop complete
 once. A do while  loop executes the code first , then checks to see if the
 condition is true.

What is Enum?
Answer:An Enumerated type is a datatype consisting of a sat of  named values called elements ,
members ,enumerl or enumerators of the type .The enumerator names are usually idetifires
that behave as constant in the language.

What is Iterator?
Answer:An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like
ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:Int is primitive data types which takes 32 bits(4 bytes)to store
on the other hand Integer is an object  which takes 128 bits(16 bytes).

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:
A string is set in length  and content . It can't  be modified  when
its created.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:Constructor chaining in java is the process of calling a sequences
of constructors ,it can be used two ways
By using this()keywords for chaining constructors in the same class
By using super()keywords for chaining constructors from the perent class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:Serial garbage collector  uses a single thread for garbage collection process
while the parallel garbage collector  uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:Just - In - Time.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:Java garbage collection is the process by which java
programs performs automatic memory management JVM machine do the work for that.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:No ,not at all.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:JAVA heap space is used throughout the application
but stack is used only for the method actually heap memory is used by all the parts
 of the application where as stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Reflection is a feature in java programming language
It is used to describe code ehichis able to inspect other code
in the same system(for itself).

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more
threads simultaneously for maximum utilization of the CPU.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:Synchorization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple
 threads to any shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer:A basic conceptional structure(as of ideas).

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:
TestNG
JUnit
Selenium
Mockito.



What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit is an open source frame work used to trigger and wtrite test
TestNG IS a java based frame worked that is an upgraded option for running tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:
Logical dependency
Resource dependencies
Cross term dependencies
External dependencies
Internal dependencies.

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:Dependency injection (DI) IS the concept in which object
get other required  objects from outside.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Static binding uses Type infomation for binding while Dynamic bindings uses
object Object to resolve binding.