***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer:
We need data structure for following :efficiency,reusability,and invisibility.
Data structure provides  a means of organizing ,managing and storing data
efficiantly.It also includs the collection of data as well as the operations
 that can be applied to that data.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer:
There are different data structures used for the storage of data .It can also be
define as a mathematical or logical model of a particular organization of data
items  .The representation of particular data structure  in the main memory of a
computer is called as storage structure .For example _____________
Array,Stack,Queue,Tree,Graph etc.

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer:
All the structure in data structures are used in real time applications.
 For example stacks are used internally by each compiler  to save the return
memory address before invoking any function.Similarly  queues are used in operating
 system to keep the track of the process that need CPU time.

What is an Array?
Answer:
An Array is a collection of elements of the same type placed in contiguous
memory locations that can be individually referenced by using an index to a
unique identifier

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer:
Array is a fixed length data structure
Arraylist is a variable  length collection class.
We cannot change length of Array once created in java
but Arraylist can be changed

What is a LinkedList?
Answer:
Linked List is a part of the collection frame work present in java .util package

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:
An Array is a collection elements of a similar data type
Linked list is an ordered collection of elementsof the same type
in which each elements is connected to the next using pointers.
Array elements can be accessed randomly using the array index
but random accessing is not possible in linked list.

What is a Queue?
Answer:
A queue is a data structure which worked exactly like how a real life
queue works.When you insert something into the data structure the new
elements is added atb the end of it .On the other hand when you take something
out of it the elements at the front is given to you..That means the elements
 comes out in the order they entered.It is called First  Come First  Out(FIFO)
 Structure

What is a Stack (referring to data structures)?
Answer:
Stack is a linear data structure which follows a perticular
order in which the operations are performed

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer:
FIFO means First In First  Out
LIFO means Last In First Oot

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer:
Big O notation is a way to measure an algorithm's effienciency
It measures the time it takes to run your function as the input grows
or in other words how well does the function scale

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer:
The best case to search an element is 0(1)
when element is first or last element  in the array

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer:
The wrost case performance is whenthe search item appears
at the end of the list or not at all.

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer:
Atree is non leaner and stores data hierarchically within nodes .Each
nodes of a tree stores  a value and a list of referance to another nodes .

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer:
A Graph is non linear and consists of vertices and edges.
The vertices are also known as modes and edges are the
lines that connect any two modes  .They are used to represents
network.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:
A Hash map  is non synchronized, so it can't be shared between multiple
threads,whereas a hash table can support multiple threads .A hash map allows
one null key and multiple null values where as a hashtable  don't allows any
null key or value.

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer:
It's exceptions that gets thrown when trying to access any elements
not within the given range of an array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:
You can use a for loop and assign each elements from an array to another
array. You can also use the object .clone()method ,System arraycopy() method
or Arrays.copyof()method

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:
DFS stands for Depth First Search and BFS Stands for Breath First Search
They are two simpliest graph search algorithms .BFS walks through all needs
of the same level before moving on the next level. DFS  begins at the root mode
and proceeds through the modes as for a possible untill we reach at the mode
that has no unvisited nearby modes .

What is Recursion?
Answer:Recursions is the technique of making a function call itself

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:
Linear and Non leaner just refers to how the elements within a collection
are stored .Leaner means the elements are stored sequentially and are
attached to its adjacent elements .There is only one level.
Arrays ,Stacks, Queues, Linkedlists and sometimes hash maps are linear
Non leaner data structures are attached hierarchically and can have
multiple levels . Trees and Graphs are Non leaner.

Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
Selection Sort -o(n^2)
Bubble Sort -o(n^2)
Insertation  Sort -o(n^2)
Heap Sort -o(n long(n))
Bucket Sort o(n+k)
